# CVA6 Bi-Weekly Meeting - 5/2/2021

Participants: Jean Roch Coulon, Davide Schiavone, Gedam Anjali, Gianmarco Ottavi, Sebastien Jacq, Mike Thomson, Emeric Poulin
Pranay Jerome, Subra, Quevremont Jerome, Simon Davidmann, Andre Sintzoff


# Document Hierarchy for Core Development

- Requirement specification, a document prepared (2-5 pages), to be presented at the PPA gate
- Jerome: Requirement specification must be in a clear manner. This is no architecture manual.
- User manual: Addressing verification engineer and software engineer, IP integration, physical designers.
- Verification architecture, tools, approach and the environment.
- Verification plan. Mike will drive with his experience on CV32E40P. Identify the features and how they are verified (set of spreadsheets).
- Design Document (optional). Specific detail on the design (block diagram, explain design choices). A section about the scoreboard. Reuse, maintenance, handover, etc.
- Start with specification. Used to estimate design and verification effort.
- Which tool? Google Docs, AsciiDoc?
    - Jerome: Simulatnouse editing possible in markdown?
    - Mike: Look at AsciiDoc.
    - Rick: We have to rely on AsciiDoc.
    - Simon: RISC-V is going down the AsciiDoc
    - Subra: Look at https://www.reqview.com/
    - Mike: Let's look at the reqview. For user manual Development isn't chaotic.
    - Florian: Suggest https://hackmd.io/
    - Duncan: We will provide a recommendation. Has the anybody worked with reqview?
    - Subra: Yes, Duncan and Subra syncing up.
- FPGA Performance:
    - Sebastian to update. Worked on CVA6 and implemented on an FPGA. Measured performance. They are in the same range as other cores.
    - Sebastian didn't consider the max frequency.
    - Implemented CVA6 on ZCU102. RISCY, Microblaze, CV32A6 and CV64A6. Big difference between CV32A6 and CV64A6.
    - CVA6 can improve in resource utilization a lot on FPGA
    - Critical path goes through the branch-predictor.
    - ASIC tech the path is faster.

## Verification

- Support two different environments: (1) Similar to CV32E4 tb (2) open-source environment (Verilator, Spike)
- (2) Will help people evaluate the core without NDA/licenses.
- Thales has many interactions with research so an open environment is important.
- CV64A6 is verified in legacy. CV32 is verified in Thales Github.
- Commits last year broke performance.
- Priority: Get a common joint testbench/CI/commit process.
- How should we manage the transition from legacy to OpenHW environment?
- New features should not break any of the new configurations of CVA6. CVA6 is a bit of a challenge for Core-V verif.
- Current CVA6 testbench:
  - Based on RISC-V DV. `riscv-compliance` and `riscv-tests` and `riscv-dv`. Compile with LLVM/GCC.
  - Run with Verilator and Questa. Generate a trace.
  - Merge with CV32 TB. But also verify with CVA6 verification. Challenge is to manage the two objectives.
  - In DV TG they have started to work on this.
  - Jean-Roche Proposes:
  - OpenHW leads Management, User-Manual, Micro-arch specification
  - Thales INVIA: CI (Docker), Functional coverage, power sim
  - Thales INDIA: Code coverage, lint clean-up, complete isa verif, privilege verif, micro-architecture verif
- Rick: We should invest in core-v-verif.
- Subra: Should we plan around UVM? Arrive at complete verification using industry standard?
- Mike: We don't need to use UVM. He is not advocating to discontinuing UVM. If we want to bring the core to industry quality we need to rely on UVM and commercial tools. We are not getting to the finishing line with open-source tools.
- Mike: We are not so far apart. What is the DUT exactly.
- Jerome: Good point from everybody. We need to close the meeting for today/
