# CVA6 Bi-Weekly Meeting 9-4-2021 (day-month-year)
Participants: Jean Roch Coulon, Davide Schiavone, Sebastien Jacq, Mike Thomson, Pranay Nath, Jerome Quevrement, Subra, Simon Davidmann, Andre Sintzoff, Kevin Eyssartier, Ranjan Kumar Barika, Anjali Gedam, Duncan Bees

## Specification
- Jerome has contributed to cache requirements.
- No other contributions.
- Subhra reports that work is on-going for CSRs, but not yer ready to add to spec.
- Florian agreed to take on L1 Icache requirements.

## Scope
- Reminder that Debug Module and Interrupts Controller(s) are not within the scope of the IP.
- Question: is the WB cache within the scope of the IP?

## FENCE.T
- Currently this is a proprietary instruction.
- Jean Roch asked who is driving requirements/specification of FENCE.T for CVA6?
- Jerome indicated that he is the author of current requirements in CVA6 spec.

## Verif
- Mike is proposing extracting the "platform" from the CVA6 repository.
- Florian is opposed to this as it creates a proliferation of repos.
- There are several "library" components that are used by both the CVA6 IP and the platform.  Florian does not wish to replicate these.
- Simon inquired about the scope of verification: this is not yet decided and will depend on the final sepcification.
- Action: **Mike** to work with Florian and Jean Roch to propose a way to clearly deliniate the "IP" from the "platform" while perserving the common library used by both.

## S/W
- Sebastien has been successful booting Linux-64 CV64A6 using Questa.
- Linux-32 does not boot on CV32A6 using Questa.
- Sebastien has reverted to Spike determine if the issue is with the Linux-32 build or not.
- Jean Roch recommended using Verilator without waves to significantly improve run-time and disk utilitization.

## DataPath for FPU
- Pranay presented results of his investigations: conclusion - if we require double-precision floating point, the datapath must be 64-bits for both CV32A6 and CV64A6, so the only saving is the width of the CSRs.
- Subhra observed that the most significant resource requirements and longest timing paths are in the EX stage and Scoreboard which implies that RV32D version of CV32A6 does not have significant area savings.
- Jerome commented that no decision has been made regarding RV32D support in CV32A6.
- Action: **Florian** to investigate whether a "Snitch like" FP external co-processor could improve the situation.
- Action: **Pranay** to investigate PPA of commerical offerings of RV32GC.
- Action: **Simon** to ask his team if an algorithm to emulate D with S is possible.
