# Software TG Report March 2021

Presented to TWG meeting 22 March 2021.

## Reports on active projects

Links to reports on four projects in progress.

* [IDE report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-03-08.md):

  * Passed concept proposal gate
  * still need exemplary projects and more metadata

* [GNU Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-03-08.md):

  * Passed concept proposal gate
  * Have changed `-march=Xcorevpostinc` to `-march=Xcorevmem`, coordinated with Clang/LLVM project.

* [Clang/LLVM Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-03-08.md):

  * Passed concept proposal gate
  * Have incorporated all University of Tübingen work into the LLVM assembler for CV32E40P. Now moving on to compiler builtins.
  * Zbigniew Chamski has been out for some months, now picking up the CVA6 project.

* [FreeRTOS report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-08-march-21.md):

  * Passed concept proposal gate
  * FreeRTOS kernel and combined (includind drivers) repositories now published on OpenHW
  * Waiting on a new bitstream for the latest hardware.

## Other issues

* Software TG has accepted as Imperas OVPSim as one of its modeling tools
* Software TG will be presenting a 90 minute session at OpenHW Day on 1 April, with a big emphasis on demoing working technology.

## Future projects

* **PlatformIO:** Contribution from PlatformIO Labs

  * Project concept proposal in preparation by Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees
  * Initially standalone, eventually to be combined with Eclipse CDT.

* **Hardware Abstraction Layer**

  * Analogous to Arm CMSIS (which is Apache licensed)
  * Initial focus on just core and driver packages
  * Work to develop project proposal lead by Yunhai Shang of Alibaba T-Core.
