# Software TG Report April 2021

Presented to TWG meeting 26 April 2021.

## Reports on active projects

Links to reports on four projects in progress.

* [IDE report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-04-12.md):

  * Found a way to work with PlatfromIO from Eclipse Workbench.
  * Implemented basic Eclipse IDE integration for PlatformIO.
  * Minor improvements.


* [GNU Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-04-09.md):

  * Existing PULP simulator continues to be adapted to support CORE-V extensions - nearing completion.
  * Working on integrating GCC regression testsuite with simulator.

* [Clang/LLVM Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-04-12.md):

  * CVA6

    * review of directions

      * focus: base RV32gc/RV64gc, then extensions B, V (and later K)
	  * objective: single multitarget toolchain for CV64A6 and CV32A6
      * outlook: use Linux as additional means of functional validation

    * current activity

      * QA assessment of LLVM 12.0.0-rc1 (review of status for bugs identified in v10/v11 using riscv-dv)

  * CV32E40P

    * Add HWLP code generation (WIP, waiting on review)
    * Add MAC builtins (WIP)
    * Add HWLP memcpy optimization (WIP)

* [FreeRTOS report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-12-april-21.md):

  * Present Core-V FreeRTOS port during OpenHW Day at 2nd RISC-V Week
  * Hardware changes to the Core-V MCU are ongoing on GitHub [openhwgroup/core-v-mcu](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu), PR [#3](https://github.com/openhwgroup/timer_unit/pull/3).

## Other issues

* Software TG presented a 90 minute session at OpenHW Day on 1 April, with a big emphasis on demoing working technology.
* Software TG was the focus of OpenHW TV on 22 April, with presentations on the compiler tool chains, FreeRTOS and IDEs.

## Upcoming projects

* **PlatformIO:** Contribution from PlatformIO Labs

  * Project concept proposal in preparation by Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees
  * Initially standalone, eventually to be combined with Eclipse CDT.

* **Hardware Abstraction Layer**

  * Work to develop project proposal lead by Yunhai Shang of Alibaba T-Core.
  * Preliminary [report on work to date](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/hal/2021/monthly-report-2021-04-12.md)

    * On the direction of RVM-SIS, we have reached a preliminary agreement with [RISC-V International] software HC.
	* Complete the brief introduction slides of [Alibaba] CSI, it's currently in the approval process.
    * Channel SW:HAL has been created on Mattermost.

  * There was considerable discussion at the meeting, key points

    * General concensus not to invent yet another HAL for RISC-V.
	* Action to deliver "literature survey" at next month.
	* Timecale for concept review is June TWG.
