# Software TG Report June 2021

Presented to TWG meeting 28 June 2021.

## Actions from most recent meetings

There were two meetings this month on 14 June 2021 (main meeting) and 21 June
2021 (review HAL for TWG submission).

Actions from [minutes of 14 June 2021](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/meetings/2021/2021-06-14-minutes.md)

**Jeremy Bennett** to remove Duncan Bees from PlatformIO project proposal updates as project concept is by Ivan Kravets.

**Duncan Bees** and **Yunhai Shang** to upload presentation to mattermost and github for people to offer edits and opinions. Including added slides depicting differences between the HAL and SDK projects.

**Rick O'Connor** to get HW & SW TG's together to decide what the SDK will include.

Actions from [minutes of 21 June 2021](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/meetings/2021/2021-06-21-minutes.md)

**Yunhai Shang** to lead finalizing the HAL Project Concept document via a PR on GitHub, for submission to the TWG on 28 June 2021.

## Reports on active projects

Links to reports on four Software TG projects and one joint Software/Hardware TG project.

* [IDE report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-06-11.md)

  * At Project Concept stage.
  * This month: upgraded underlying components to later versions, made minor improvements.
  * Next month: complete quests to run with OVPSim and to run on remote hardsware; investigate what simplistic application shoud look like.
  * No risk register changes.

* [GNU Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-06-14.md):

  * At Project Concept stage.
  * This month: integrating GCC regression testing with GVSoC; rebasing GNU repositories; working on blog post about using GVSoC.
  * Next month: finalize GCC regression testing with GVSoC; merge post-increment/register-indexed load/store and immediate branching to binuils-gdb.
  * No risk register changes.

* [Clang/LLVM Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-06-14.md):

  * At Project Concept stage.
  * CVA6

    * This month: check status of Clang+LLVM+LLD wrt. core-v-verif tests; key issues: floating-point, out-of-bound relocations
	* Next month: finalize LLVM/core-v-verif evaluation; automate tool chain buids; basic benchmarking of speed and size.

  * CV32E40P

    * This month: port HW loop generation.
	* Next month: automated builds of tool chain on Embecosm public buildbot; port builtins from Unviersity of Tübingen.

  * No risk register changes.

* [FreeRTOS report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-14-june-21.md):

  * At Project Concept stage.
  * This month: regenerated bitstream; retested on Nexus A7-100T (timer interrupt, GPIO LED problems, basic programming examples are needed).
  * Next month: update register definitions and hardware setup routine; continue work on Component 1.
  * No risk register changes.

* [Verilator report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/monthly-report-2021-06-15.md).  Note that this is Hardware TG led project, so this is only a report on the software component.

  * At Project Concept stage.
  * This month: have top level wrapper with no tristate; can build model as library; [project plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Sl_GIklam3redWNj_DRVRVVBD49LvLD8k1zeFsJXllc/edit?usp=sharing) created; work in progress on JTAG TAP driver.
  * Next month: complete JTAG TAP driver; start work on initial Embdebug port.
  * [Risk register](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Sl_GIklam3redWNj_DRVRVVBD49LvLD8k1zeFsJXllc/edit?usp=sharing) created (as part of project plan spreadsheet).

## Upcoming projects

* **PlatformIO:** Contribution from PlatformIO Labs

  * Currently on hold.

* **Hardware Abstraction Layer**

  * Project Concept stage under consderation at TWG 28 June 2021.
  * Latest [report on work to date](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/hal/2021/monthly-report-2021-06-14.md)

    * This month: captured draft requirements, initial industry competitive comparison copleted; draft Project Concept proposal in preparation;
	* Next month: gain TWG approval; start work on initial stages of project.

* **Requirements for CORE-V MCU developer board SDK**

  * Initial discussion started, joint Hardware and Software TG meeting to be arranged to agree contents.

* **Linux integration**

  * CVA6 now supports Linux.
  * In due course a project to manage Linux for CORE-V devices will be required.
