# Software TG Report August 2021

Presented to TWG meeting 23 August 2021.

## Actions from most recent meetings

Actions from [minutes of 9 August 2021](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/meetings/2021/2021-08-09-minutes.md)

- **Hugh Pollitt-Smith** to add fixing hardware issues found by software teams to next Hardware TG meeting.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

- **Jessica Mills** to discuss HAL tool chain issues with Yunhai Shang.

- **Olive Zhao** and **Yunhai Shang** to present comparative analsysis of the various HAL approaches against the requirements specified in the Project Concept document at the next meeting.

- **Wei Wu** to talk to **Jessica Mills** (GNU tool chain) and **Philipp Krones** (CV32E40P LLVM tool chain) about incorporating the PLCT work in the official CORE-V tool chain repositories.

## Reports on active projects

Links to reports on four Software TG projects and one joint Software/Hardware TG project.

* [IDE report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-08-09.md)

  - At Project Concept stage.
  - Main focus is support additional license check when installing extra bundles.  The idea is to allow a way for proprietary contributors to the IDE.

* [GNU Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-08-09.md):

  - At Project Concept stage.
  - This month

	- pushed rebased binutils to CORE-V
	- rebasing remaining instructions
	- working on writing GCC tests for extensions

* [FreeRTOS report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-08-aug-21.md):

  - At Project Concept stage.
  - This month:

    - the same issues remain regarding RTL simulation
	- issue of fixing hardware issues found by software teams added to next Hardware TG meeting.

* No Clang/LLVM Tools report this month

* [Hardware Abstraction Layer report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/hal/2021/monthly-report-2021-08-09.md)

  - At Project Concept phase
  - putting a minimal system together
  - hello world now working on Genesys2 board
  - found problems with CORE-V tool chain.
	- may be newlib issue
	- Jessica Mills of GNU Tools project tasked to assist.

* [Verilator modeling report to Software TG](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/20210809-report.md) and [Verilator modeling report to Hardware TG](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/202100721-report.md).  Note that this is Hardware TG led project, so this is only a report on the software component.

  - At Project Launch stage.
  - This month:

    - [project plan and risk register](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Sl_GIklam3redWNj_DRVRVVBD49LvLD8k1zeFsJXllc) updated;
	- DMI registers all implemented and can be read and written;
	- restructured CORE-V-MCU does not work, but issue likely identified as boot sequence bringing up the debug firmware;
	- 6 milestones: milestone 1 complete, milestone 2 progress 86%; and
	- 8 week delay due to continuing lack of resource and unanticipates complexity in modeling the debug module. Assuming similar slip in remainder of project, likely completion of all deliverables is in January 2022.

  - Next month:

	- fix issue with restructured CORE-V-MCU repository;
    - complete JTAG driver testing (DMI driver, DMI, DTM and TAP tests); and
	- start work on initial Embdebug target library for CORE-V-MCU

  - [Risk register](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Sl_GIklam3redWNj_DRVRVVBD49LvLD8k1zeFsJXllc): no changes

## Upcoming projects

* **Tool chain support for CV32E41P**

  Work providing `Zce` support led by Wei Wu and his team at the CAS PLCT lab:
  - initial priority is binutils and Clang/LLVM support, followed by GNU tool chain support;
  - action on Wei Wu to coordinate with Jessica Mills (GNU Tools) and Philip Krones (Clang/LLVM for CV32E40P) on incorporating the `Zce` support into the CORE-V tool chain.

* **Requirements for CORE-V MCU developer board SDK**;

  Further discussion of the requirements.
  - Draft framework for project concept to be presented at TWG August by Hugh O'Keeffe (Ashling) and Ian Loveless (Embecosm)
  - Project concept to be submitted for approval at TWG September
  - Key issue will be resourcing the plans.

* **Linux integration**

  - No update this month.

* **Generalization of tools to other CORE-V architectures**

  - No update this month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
