# Software TG Report May 2021

Presented to TWG meeting 24 May 2021.

## Actions from most recent meeting

Actions from [minutes](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/meetings/2021/2021-05-10-minutes.md)

**Ivan Kravets** and **Duncan Bees** to finalize the concept proposal for PlatformIO support and submit to the TWG meeting on 24 May 2021.

**Yunhai Shang** and his team to produce a comparative analysis of HAL solutions for the meeting on 14 June 2021.

**Yunhai Shang** to propose a time for a demonstration of T-Head CSI for all interested parties.

**Duncan Bees** to approach each project lead to organize advancing the project to the next process gate.

**Jeremy Bennett** to add CORE-V MCU developer board SDK to the agenda of the next meeting for fuller discussion.

**All** to consider whether they can lead the project to create the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK.

## Reports on active projects

Links to reports on four projects in progress.

* No IDE report this month.

* [GNU Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-05-10.md):

  * No substantial improvement since last meeting, but have adapted PULP simulator for CORE-V. Working on blog post to explain it. Also working on integrating GCC regression test suite with this simulator.

* [Clang/LLVM Tools report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-05-10.md):

  * CVA6 in process of qualifying LLVM 12 on the CVA6 test suite, using LLVM and LLD. One known issue (upstream) of interaction between alignment and relaxation in LLD, so not currently supported. Issue of size of binary to share.

  * Nothing new to report on CV32E40P

* [FreeRTOS report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-10-may-21.md):

  * Still have some hardware changes ongoing, waiting for this to settle, so can re-test.

* [Verilator report](https://mattermost.openhwgroup.org/all-users/pl/ca7gj8ceqfdr8d4yi5ch67fc4c) (no Mattermost).  Note that this is Hardware TG led project, so this is only a report on the software component.

  * Can build Verilator model with a simple test bench. Simple clocking performance is around 30kHz on a 3-year old Xeon.

    * for comparison the Verilator model of just the PULP core in 2017 ran at around 800kHz, but that was after some work tuning.

  * We get 944 warnings when building the Verilator model. Raised as issue [#130](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/130) on the [`core-v-mcu`](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu) repository.

    * 27 `UNOPTFLAT` warnings in particular will cause performance issues.

  * Upcoming work is to replace the simple test bench by the Embdebug server target framework.  The key initial piece of work will be to write the JTAG driver.  This follows the spec in  section 6.1 of the RISC-V Debug Spec v 0.13.2 (ratified).

  * [Project Launch proposal](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/Project%20Descriptions%20and%20Plans/Verilator%20Model/verilator-modeling-pl.md) to be presented at TWG meeting.

## Upcoming projects

* **PlatformIO:** Contribution from PlatformIO Labs

  * Project concept proposal in preparation by Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees for presentation at TWG on 28 June 2021.
  * Initially standalone, eventually to be combined with Eclipse CDT.

* **Hardware Abstraction Layer**

  * Work to develop project proposal lead by Yunhai Shang of Alibaba T-Core.
  * Latest [report on work to date](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/hal/2021/monthly-report-2021-05-10.md)

    * Yunhai Shang and his team to produce a comparative analysis of HAL solutions for the next ST TG meeting and to arrange a separate demo of T-Head CSI for all parties.
