June 25, 2020
============

Attendees:
----------

**OpenHW:** Mike Thompson<br>
**Imperas:** Lee Moore, Simon Davidmann<br>
**SiLabs:** Oystein Knauserud, Wajid Minhass, Paul Zavalney

Notes:
------

New actions:<br>
**Mike**: to enable dumping of OVPsim paramters at runtime (might need to read the manual).<br>
**Paul**: to review his tb/tc updates with Oystein.<br>
**Lee**: to make check that "halt request" and debug CSRs are available from the CV32E40P RM.

Topics:
-------

1. Quick Introductions

2. Goals:
- The goal is top-to-bottom and front-to-back (i.e. "complete") verification of the Debug feature in CV32E40P.  This is expected to be achieved via a combination
of random test-programs (generated by [riscv-dv](https://github.com/google/riscv-dv)), manually written test-programs and functional coverage.
- The `debug_req_i` input to the core will be driven either by a yet-to-be-developed UVM Debug Agent or test-programs via a memory-mapped
[virtual peripheral](https://core-v-docs-verif-strat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/sim_tests.html#virtual-peripherals).
- Paul has developed the memory mapped test-program, which is integrated into the UVM environment.   Paul's testcases have yet to be integrated.  How this is
handled with be up to Oystein.
- The "Debug Module" (DM) is considered outside the scope of this effort.
- Proper operation of the core will be determined by checking core results against the OVPsim reference model.

3. Process:
Mike walked the team through the top-down process we will following:
- Oystein & Wajid to capture a debug verificaiton plan.  This is on-going and a [draft](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/verif/CV32E40P/VerificationPlan/debug-trace/CV32E40P_debug.xlsx) is already available.
- Vplan will be reviewed when Oystein and Wajid are ready.  At a minimum Paul must be on the review team.
- Oystein will develop required environment infrastructure and testcases with support from Paul and Imperas (for RM).
- An initial set of directed testcases to prove 'success-case' functionality are expected.
- Ideally, most verification of debug will be done with random tests.
- Completness of effort will be measured by functional coverage (developed by Oystein).

4. Simon walked the team through the operation of the Reference Model

5. Paul introduced the testbench work he has done to date.

6. General Discussion:
- A "halt request" input is available on the RM.  This needs to be available to the testbench via API (see AIs above).
- When debug_req is asserted, the current instruction in the decoder is _not_ impacted, so work will need to be done\
to sync the halt request CV32E40P execution pipeline.
