Minutes of CV32A6_v0.1.0 verification kick off meeting

1.	cv32a6_v0.1.0  goal
	a.	cv32a6_v0.1.0  verification is part of CVA6 OpenHW group project. Jean-Roch Coulon is Verification technical leader and subproject manager. 
	b.	cv32a6_v0.1.0 project aims to develop verification environment, this environment will be applied on other cva6 version, cv32a6_v0.2.0 for instance.
	c.	Do we need to work in core-v-verif/cva6/dev branches?
	d.	cv32a6_v0.1.0 project aims to verify “software programmer view level”.
	e.	Current CVA6 version is 4.2. Should we rename cv32a6_v0.1.0 into cv32a6_v4.3.0 for instance ?  For information, latest tag on cva6 RTL is 4.2.0
	f.	cv32a6_v0.2.0 and cv32a6_v0.3.0 are not granted, but they are in the roadmap.
	g.	cv32a6_v0.1.0 project consists to adapt the existing embedded cores verification infrastructure to cv32a6_v0.1.0: specifications, dvplans, UVM agents, …  New points to be verified should be kept to be verified during next steps, cv32a6_v0.2.0 for instance.
	h.	Functional coverage goal is not 100%, to shorten cv32a6_v0.1.0 project and keep team motivation. 100% will be reached in following projects, cv32a6_v0.2.0 for instance.

2.	cv32a6_v0.1.0  plan
	a.	Done in GANTT.
	b.	Resources from Thales (TSS, TRT, ECC), OpenHW Group, ETHZ
	c.	Newcomers: 10xEngineers, Bosch, Synthara,… contributions most welcome, especially to address gaps; get in touch with Jean-Roch.
	d.	Not yet assigned tasks: MMU, A Extension, fencei, core_cntrl, linter, fix bugs, OVPSim
	e.	Target completion date: September 2023

3.	For information, SAIL provides an help to generate instruction specification.

4.	User guide
	a.	User guide should not be a copy of RISC-V International specifications but only cva6 characteristics
	b.	Create a User guide chapter to list the cva6 parameters and detail the cv32a6_v0.1.0 configuration
	c.	So far CV-X-IF description with cv32a6_v0.1.0 characteristics does not exist, to be specified.

5.	ISS
	a.	Spike is the cv32a6_v0.1.0 reference model
	b.	cv32a6_v0.1.0 is open to add OVPSIM to the testbench. As cv32a6_v0.1.0 is an R&D project which does not generate profit, need to find a way to make Imperas contribution easier.

6.	CVXIF
	a.	=> The infrastructure required to verify a coprocessor needs to be pulled in CV-X-IF repository, the CV-X-IF CSEM agent for instance.
	b.	CV-X-IF coverage should be moved outside the agent.

7.	As PMA agent depends on OBI, some additional work is needed to adapt it to AXI.

8.	Open question: Spike should be vendorized, or a fork ?

9.	CSR
	a.	Better to monitor CSR on RVFI tracer than on AXI, to be more agnostic.
	b.	CSR access rights will be tested thanks to an IPXACT to test generator script. CSR HW effect to be tested are described in dedicated dvplans.

10.	AXI
	a.	AXI out of order accesses, between I and D on read access, are not covered so far, to be added.
	b.	AXI agent should be merged soon, incremental PR will come later.

11.	GitHub Issues
	a.	To setup an homogenous way to specify the GitHub labels between different repositories, a method should be proposed by OpenHW Group staff, triage of current GitHub issues done and the method should be applied on future issues.
	b.	To assign easily GitHub issues, an idea would be to use a Bot.

12.	CI
	a.	CI should depend on PR type: doc -> nothing, verif -> short CI, RTL -> full CI
	b.	Provide information of Thales CI results to users in GitHub
	c.	Add smoke tests in GitHub Actions CI
	d.	Add Questa to smoke tests
	e.	CI applied on cva6/master branch should be run without failing tests, CI applied on cva6/cv32a6_v0.1.0 should contain failing tests

13.	Decision taken to use Verissimo to clean-up the UVM code and to use SpyGlass for RTL.

14.	Decision taken to use embedded core spreadsheet to manage verification process

15.	NextCloud cannot be accessed by Jérôme, to be investigated
